hello friends here are the gayest core
ok ours for quarter to first up ipfs
courses are engaging and interesting so
what we're going to do is create a
couple of courses for the upcoming ipfs
camp we're going to do a core course and
an elective course which we are yet to
decide what the content on but we're
gonna create those two and they're going
to be awesome so second up we're going
to build some features that will provide
the best ipfs experience at ipfs camp so
number one the DHT is landed in Jess IP
FSN and they will by default in the
browser and nodejs
so without the DHD we have limited
ability to find content in the p2p
networks so any hopes of us saving
bandwidth for like getting content
quickly from peers close of us are
severely hampered so we need that
implemented and it's kind of crucial to
having a really good IVFs experience
vital missing api's are implemented we
want to implement repo GC and refs so
basically if we're going to store data
for package managers we need to be able
to pin it so that it doesn't get deleted
and also we need to be able to garbage
collect so when we're using NFS heavily
or you know fetching content and
whatever it doesn't eventually fill up
the death the refs endpoint needs to
exists at a typey typey FS could be a
preload node for itself and about that
in a second
next up IP at NS resolution is assisted
by dns for speed
so IP NS need to be fast needs to be
fast for package managers to be able to
figure out what the latest version of
the repository is the DNS hack for IP NS
resolution will provide a fast and
reliable centralized method with a
fallback to the decentralized method
that we're currently using so so that
would be cool and it will be much faster
and it will be awesome
next up base 42 encoded peer ids can be
used with IP NS this is cool it's needed
to allow both mutable content on the
gateway without security issues on the
public gateway than the condo project
gateway and it's also needed if we are
going to transition from page 58 to face
50 to see IDs we we we kind of want to
send the message that everything is
going to be based voted to in the future
so let's support them with I pianist
openness resolve can resolve IP NS rip
names I mean that me kind of makes sense
and currently I've been that ipfs
resolve it can't currently resolve I
pianist names and it's required for
package managers so they can figure out
the latest version of registry which
I've already said and yeah so next up
core api's are affected to use async
iterators and async await and at least
three-quarters of the Reapers in scope
have a proposal or pull request so this
is an ongoing endeavor to which will
affect kind of performance
maintainability developer experience it
involves the whole of the Jess Jess core
team and we'll make eventually a really
nice developer experience for ipfs users
in JavaScript all right cool next up
Jess IVFs supports itself in production
environments so this is about making
Jess IVFs a ready for production we've
had objectives in the past trying to get
a JFS into production but we slowly come
to realize that there are many other
things in JFS that need to be tweaked
and tuned before we can actually get
there so this will this will help with
that hopefully so we've got a GC
strategy exists to serve the needs of
the preload nodes so currently in a
preload nodes have the concept G seed
every hour or so which is which is fine
but it's bad news if you add your
quantity' ipfs just on the cusp of it
being deseed so a more appropriate GC
strategy might be to just remove the see
IDs that are older that were added more
than an hour ago perhaps so this will
allow us to build in a better strategy
for that at the same time as
implementing GC in general okay next up
is perf benchmarking site hooked up to
CI we've got we've got a performance
benchmarking website already there it
needs a bit of fixing up but if we're
going to be able to measure our
performance over time we need some
visibility we need to actually need that
to be hooked into CI so that we can see
when we make when we make changes
whether or not they're affecting our
performance so this is just a kind of
simple one there next IVFs replaces the
current go IVFs preload nodes okay so
this is about JSI PFS dogfooding itself
and so like as a stepping stone to
getting JJ's IVFs working as a gateway
node it should serve itself in
production and be one of the public
preload nodes and then it should be
using this new GC strategy that we
implement so that we get a really good
experience for people using the preload
nodes okay next objective adding and
updating a package monitored data is
easy and convenient okay so first up
first key a result for that is to is a
sink for ipfs exists to make mirroring
package manager' data with ipfs of work
so at the moment mirroring package
manager data with ipfs is impossible
fuses to slow file store cannot be
updated and doesn't exist in J's IVFs
and like Rhian porting everything just
simply takes too long and and requires
double the disk space you have to have
it in disk as well as in your IP FS repo
so so that's not good we need something
we need either a tool that is asking for
ipfs or
or ipfs mounted as a filesystem with
them MF s so this is the this is the key
result to get that working so the
package managers can actually add staff
and update the things to IP first next
up an experimental UNIX FS
implementation exists in Jes IVFs to
allow permissions or metadata to be
stored with files so this one is like us
needing last modified time and file
permissions like whether they are
executable or not to be persisted when
we add data to when package managers add
data to their repos so yeah this is just
that requirement and that will either be
using the existing UNIX FS system using
the metadata that I know is already
there or or implementing or helping
implement that or at least having an
experimental implementation of so next
up existing pinning code is refactored
to not be a bottleneck when adding the
files okay so this is kind of necessary
we've not we've seen in the npm on ipfs
experiment that actually pinning things
is it takes a while it takes a long time
take too long and it's a bottleneck and
so it's currently disabled in npm on
ipfs and that's okay because GC doesn't
exist yet
so what we need to do is refactor the
existing pinning code make it faster so
make it not a bottleneck when adding
files because we're going to be doing a
whole lot of that when package managers
are using JFS alright next so research
and create a proof concept for
collecting improved networking
introspection metrics around size and
activity so this is fairly fairly simple
and
and needed for ipfs in general so that
we can figure out like who is using IP
of asana and why and how many people and
what kind of what kind of coverage do we
have and there is also the elephant in
the room that package managers will
still want metrics on whether whether
their repos are being used even when
they've switched to a distributed system
so we need some way of collecting that
information cool all right
next objective experience is tailored in
different environments for optimum
performance hooray
yes we did this okay so performance
profiles exist for desktop browser
server mobile and in test cool okay so
if we're gonna run Jaz IVFs nodes in
production we need a server profile that
will configure JSI PFS to operate
appropriately in say like a data center
or aware over and if we're going to be
adding a profile for that then we may as
well have a number of profiles for for
places where j sake FS is likely to be
used next up a repo migration tool
exists that and and Jase IVFs can
automatically upgrade old own repos cool
so this is necessary to get J's IVFs
into production we still need to be able
to upgrade our repos if if they're and
their layout changes or whatever we need
to be able to migrate our data it will
also be necessary when migrating the
block store to use multi hashes and
instead of using C IDs for keys as we do
now cool so that's that one and next up
port Robin - Jas who all use the J's
version if it's now available cool yes
so this is basically so Robin in Jace
IVFs at the moment is is a native module
and there's no browser
equivalent so it's just not included in
the browser bundle so you can't use it
in the browser and we should be able to
use it in the browser if
just those advanced chunking
capabilities need to be available in the
browser as well so that people can do
everything they want to do in the
browser as well as in node or wherever
that wherever the hell they are anyway
so that is I hope you like them
it's very exciting there's a lot to do
so I'm gonna leave you now and get on
with the ok ours all right bye